---
title: "Perceptions of key education actors towards PISA: The case of Scotland."
collection: under_review
permalink: /under-review/under-review3
---
***Abstract***\
International organisations (IOs) have been increasingly shaping education policymaking in many countries through large-scale assessments (LSAs) including the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA). Yet, we have limited understanding of the perceptions of key social actors such as parents, teachers and government officials about LSAs. These actors are directly involved in policy implementation processes and their views may significantly differ from that of policymakers (i.e., politicians). This study fills this research gap by using the case of Scotland. We exploit Scotland’s recent downgraded performance in PISA after the country’s most ambitious Curriculum for Excellence (CfE) reform took effect in 2010. We interviewed some key public officials involved in engineering the CfE, and parents’ and teachers’ representatives. All interviewees questioned the validity of PISA to assess Scottish education’s performance because of limited comparability and no accountability of teachers and students towards it. They do not agree that PISA results reflect the effects of the CfE reform. These views contradict the mandate of the Scottish government that PISA, among other assessments, is meant to inform policymakers and assess reform effects. Our findings have implications for other countries that routinely use PISA to assess their educational performance and disregard views of education actors.\
